
<LI>Generally, trends are easier to see on a cumulative plot, as
changes are inherently more noisy.  However, this view is better to
see whether a country has peaked or not.

<LI>Confirmed cases in Spain, Germany and France have all peaked. It is not yet completely clear if they have peaked in the Netherlands, Belgium, Portugal and the UK, though all look like they may have peaked.

<LI>The UK is now reporting two sets of statistics.  The first
includes all confirmed cases, including a new testing programme for
healthcare workers and families.  These counts were not previously
included in the data.  The second count, so called "pillar 1"
statistics covers hospitalized patients, and is generally comparible
over time, even if it does not include all confirmed cases.  The UK
looks to have peaked on April 5th based on pillar 1 data, though the
full confirmed cases count does not show this peak due to the change
in testing methodology.

<LI>Ireland is showing a large increase in cases four days ago.  If I
understand correctly, this is due to the inclusion in the statistics
of a batch of much older test results which had been sent to Germany
for testing, and does not represent a real sudden increase in
infections.  Taking this into account, it looks like Ireland may also
be peaking.

<LI>The US is not technically in Western Europe, but I've added it here to aid comparison. 

<LI>The very rapid increase rate in the US appears to have tailed off,
but I suspect it has some way to go before peaking.  As the epidemic
is at different stages in different states, the US curve is less
likely to show a sharp peak when it does occur.  The last two weeks of
the US curve show strong similarities to the equivalent phase of the
Italian curve.

